Security Overview
=====================

This document is on mitigating security risks for blockchain related businesses.  

Date: Thu Sep 13 20:42:15 MDT 2018


Note: This document will be updated periodically.

1. Never have the browser remember a password.

	The browsers do not encrypt the passwords that they save.  There are drive-by attacks
	on the browsers that can reveal the saved passwords.  All it takes is visiting the
	wrong site - or having malicious advertizing on the right site.

	If you have had the browser remember a password in the past, you need to consider that
	password to have been compromized.  Change it.

2. Never use a human-generated password.  All passwords must be randomly generated by the computer.

	There is vast evidence that humans can not generate random passwords.
	Rember that **you** are the weak link in passwords.  Use a random password.

	If you have passwords that you created, then change them to computer 
	generated random passwords.

3. Use passwords that are long enough. 

	In today's world 12 characters, randomly
	generated, is sufficient. 14 to 17 characters is better.  With modern
	hardware a 7 character password can be guessed in 0.7 seconds,
	8 character password in 30 seconds, 10 character passwords in 3
	weeks and 12 character passwords in 157 years.   Length matters.

4. Write passwords down in your notebook.

	Don't lose the book.  Do make a Xerox copy of the book and
	put the copy in your sock drawer.

5. Don't change your password unless it has been leaked.

	National Institute of Standards' (NIST) recomendation is that you don't
	change your password.   Good research shows that it is better to pick
	a good password and never change it.

6. Use a different password for each site/tool.

	This contains the risk of a lost/compromized password.

7. Don't share your password with anybody **ever**.

	Enough said.
	
8. Sign up for Keybase and use it for securer communication.

	https://keybase.io

	Sign up and create a public/private key-pair.  Use Keybase (it is slow
	and kind of ugly) on both your desktop and on your mobile devices for secure
	communication.  It is designed specifically for transmitting secure
	data and it works.

9. Use a password manager or write down the password and put it in your wallet.

	Use both a password manager, like 1password, and write down the password
	on a chunk of paper.   The note in you wallet is much more secure than
	any document on a computer.  Somebody actually has to physically see the
	note for it to be stolen.   Every time you are connected to the internet
	your computer is exposed to over 3 billion potentially dangerous other
	computers.

	Do **not** install the 1password browser extension.   It has known 
	weaknesses.  Have 1password save/encrypt/restore your passwords then
	cut and paste the password from 1password into the password field
	of the applicaiton/site that you are logging into.

	For developers you may need a command line password manager.  I have
	one that fully encryptes data.

10. Use a service that validates the password has not been pawned.

	NIST has a standard that all passwords should be checked against a database
	of 500,000,000 million leaked passwords. All new passwords shall be
	checked against this list.   The tool 1password will do this for you automatically.

	https://www.1password.com

	You can check your passwrods at: https://haveibeenpwned.com/Passwords

	A really good page on this subject is at: 
	https://www.troyhunt.com/ive-just-launched-pwned-passwords-version-2/

11. Use 2-factor-authentication (2FA).

	2FA means that you use a password and a PIN that is generated by a device
	like your iPhone.  It verifies that you, the human, knows the password and
	that you are in posession of the device. This is much stronger 
	authentication.  

	Google Gmail supports using 2FA.  If you are using google, then take advantage
	of this feature.

	Do not use 2FA over SMS.  It is not secure.  NIST has specificaly banned 
	this practice.
	

12. Never email anything secure. 

	This means don't use email for passwords, keys
	or anything else that requries security.  The only secure system for passing
	secure data is Keybase.  Get a Keybase account and use that.

	Sooner or later your email will leak.  Assume that email is public.  Assume
	that all chat systems (other than Keybase) are going to leak at the worst
	possible time.

	Thyere is a way to use email securly.  This is how you do it:

	1. You create an encrypted file.  On the Mac you can use Disk Utility to 
		create an encrypted volume.  On the PC you can install VeraCrypt.
	2. You encrypt your data.
	3. You send the encrypted data to the destination person.
	4. You use a phone-call to pass the password to the person (or Keybase)
	5. They decrypt the data.

	If you transimit data in this fashion, you can use Email, Dropbox or copy the
	encrypted file to a public server.  Use 256-bit AES encryption with a strong
	randomly generated password.

	If you need help with setting this up, I can help you to use email securly.

13. Control exposure.

	Let me give you an example.  Suppose that we have a value of a token at $1,300.00
	for a cow-token.  Now we have 10,000 tokens that are associated with real live cows.
	But we pre-create 100,000,000 tokens (100 million) as our supply for running the 
	business.  The 100 million is un-sold inventory - but has a value of $1,300.00 
	per token.   A key for accessing the 100 million in un-sold invetory is on a
	laptop.   If you have the laptop in your possession then you have a $1.3 billion
	dollar un-sold inventory that you are toting around.   What is your risk?!  How
	much of a target have you made yourself into by doing this?

	Don't let yourself get in this position. Don't have all the tokens of the
	business be issued and carted around.   If the same laptop has 100 tokens on
	it, and the laptop gets stolen we can recover.  

	If you have a laptop with a significant value on it - then you will need to use
	a multi-signature and air-gap the laptop.  That means that you never plug it 
	into a network - you never connect to a WiFi network with it.  You never let it out
	of your posession.   When you go to the bathroom you take it with you.   When
	you are in your office you lock it in a safe.   The multi-signature means that
	it takes you and some other person in the business to access the data.

14. Never use a public WiFi without setting up and using a Virtual Private Network (VPN).

	It is always perferable to use a hot-spot that you control over a public WiFi.
	Verison has hot-spot technology that is wonderful.  If you have to use a
	public WiFi, then immeidately connect to a VPN.

	Understand the limitations of a VPN.   This is not total security.   A VPN will
	only keep your communication secure between your computer and the other end of
	the VPN.   This means that all the other security considerations still apply.

	Don't connect to anybody's network without using a VPN.  You don't know what
	the security is on that network.

	If you need to transfer files to somebody's network, then use a USB thumb drive
	and sneaker net (physically pass them the thumb drive with the information.)

	If a USB thumb drive has been in somebody else's computer then re-format it.
	If they are sending you files be very careful.  Usually I receive files via
	email and give files via a USB drive.   This allows the email virus scanner
	to have a peek at the incoming file.

	Microsoft Office documents are a significant computer virus vector.  I like to
	scrub them by opening the document in Libra Office, saving it in Libra Office
	format (this removes all macros), then re-opening it in Libra office and
	saving into Microsoft Office 2007 XML format.

15. Don't plug into any USB that you don't own.

	Most computers will recoginize a USB network as soon as it is plugged
	into a computer.  For $9.99 you can buy the hardware on Ebay to create
	a custom USB network adapter with drivers that will get loaded to any
	PC.   A quick Google search will lead to the soruce of the device 
	drivers for this network.   A malicious actor can now load a root-kit
	onto your computer by you plugging into a malictious USB port.  This 
	could be packaged neatly into a USB memroy stick that you find or
	one of the free USB charging ports at an airport.  Once the rootkit
	is loaded your computer is **forever** compromized.

	If you need to charge at an airport, you pull out your charger and plug
	it into a 110v outlet, then connect to your USB port.  You know the
	origins/background on the charger and that it is not malicious.

16. Use bio-metric authentication only sparingly. 

	Remember that you can't chagne your fingerprints.  Fingerprints have been
	extracted from camera images off the face of an iPhone with the image taken
	from 8 feet away.  Everything you have ever touched has potentially leaked your
	fingerpint.   Think of most biometrics as a "username" not as a "password."

	Good biometrics relys on you activly doing something that has a unique human
	signature.  For example, a system that measures the timing between typing 
	characters in a password.  You still have to type the password (the adtive
	component) and then it verifies that most-likely it is you who typed the
	password.

17. Don't install un-necessary software.

	I know that the cute-cat screen saver is fun, but it is also a secrurity risk.
	Use a screen saver with some pictures that you took with your camera.  You will
	have more fun and it will be more secure.

18. Use a fully encrypted laptop.

	With both Mac and PC you can fully encrypt your hard drive.  This means that you
	will need a password to boot your computer.  This also means that if your computer
	is stolen (or lost) it will not expose any secrets.

19. Developers must digitally sign all code changes.

	Developers must use a system like `git` and use a strong (2048 bit or 4096 bit) signature 
	to digitally sign every change to software.  Create a public/private key pair in
	Keybase and use the key pair to sign every commit to the source code.

20. Careful with 3rd party tools like Grammerly.

	Grammerly.com is a wonderful tool - but it is a huge security leak.  It will copy
	every file and every text-box that you enter into its system for checking the
	grammer.  Once the data is out of your hands - who knows what/who has access.
	Also it is not clear that the tools that Grammerly provides have any built-in
	security.

	This is in general true of all 3rd party web/based tools.  1password's browser
	plugin should not be used because it is subject to hijacking.

21. Do *NOT* use a phone number as a recovery for an account.  

	All the major carriers (ATT, Verison etc) can be socially engeneered to move
	a phone number to a new device.   This means that your account can be
	hijacked via a phone number.

	I will add details for how to turn this off with gmail and what to check for.
	It is in the account settings.

22. Do *NOT* use SMS Messaging for 2FA - it is not secure.

	See the previous note.

23. Get help right away. 

	We all make mistakes.   If something goes wrong - then - get help.  If your
	computer is comporomized, then get help before you connect to a corporate/home
	network.

	It is important to quickley classify what the threat is and to deal with it.
	1. Small threats - I lost a computer but it was fully encrypted.
	2. Medium threats - I lost a key but it can be changed on our side.
	3. Large threats - I have detected an intrusion or lost keys and there is evidence of malicious usage.



Rev: 1.0.2


